All right.
So our job listings component is in really good shape.
But as we saw in the previous lesson, we do have a failing test suite with eight failing tests, and
all of those failing tests are in this job listings test suite.
So go ahead and open up the job listings.
Test file, job listings that test that.
Yes.
And in this lesson, we're going to try to fix those failing tests.
So once again, the reason our tests are failing is because they're still relying on our former implementation,
where we were, for example, mocking out the dollar route property, the dollar store property.
Now we're replacing a lot of those functionalities with both helper functions, but also with our own
a composable.
And as we talked about earlier, the way we can make our test suite really simple for this component
is to mark out all of the composable that we use ourself.
So looking from top to bottom in our setup method, we can mark out a whole bunch of things.
Use, fetch jobs, dispatch, use filter jobs, use current page, use previous index pages, right?
So let's begin by importing those helper composable functions and then immediately mocking them out.
So right here at the very top, after my imports from test utils, I'm going to start by importing use
filter jobs as well as use fetch jobs dispatch.
And that is going to come from the source directory store composable that you ask immediately afterwards
I'm going to mark out that file so provide the exact same file path source directory store composable.
And there we go.
All right.
That's two of our functions.
Let's also import and mark out use current page that's going to come from source directory composable
it use current page on the line below same exact path.
The source directory composable is use current page.
And finally, the last one I want to do is import use, previous and next pages.
That's going to come from the source directory, slash, composable, slash, use, previous, next
pages once again and make sure to invoke just that mock immediately underneath, provide the exact same
path.
And again, what this does is it tells just to go through the files and anything that those files defines
it as functions.
It replaces them with just mock functions that are able to track how many times they've been called
and also return undefined when invoked.
All right.
So with that said, we can also start cleaning up some of our old code.
So we're not going to be actually creating root objects anymore.
We technically might if we have something that uses, for example, the user out function.
But as we'll discover, we're not going to need any of these helper functions anymore.
We're just going to do all of our mocking directly within the test themselves.
And I'll show you how all of this is going to look in just a second.
But for now, we can simply delete, create, root and create store.
We're no longer going to need this.
And in our create config function, this was our factory function that previously populated the dollar
sign root and data and store property.
We're not using that anymore.
We're using the new composition API so we can remove that max property.
We're still going to keep our stubs logic because we want to stub out the root or link.
Stop stop component.
Totally fine.
You can see once we remove that, there's also no more need for our root and store parameter.
So I'm going to remove those two parameters.
So create config will be a basic factory function that just gives me a config object that stubs out
router link.
No problem with that at all.
And with that it's simply a matter of navigating to every individual test and getting it to the pass.
So let's read through these tests, remind ourselves of what they do and then get them to pass.
So number one, when component mounts, it makes call to fetch jobs from API.
So where this logic is currently contained in our new newest iteration is line 52.
So we use the on mounted function to invoke the used fetch jobs dispatch method which runs the action.
So all I care about in this test is making sure that this function has been run well.
Remember, we just imported it and marked it out above.
So just is going to track how many times it's been invoked.
And in theory, just by mounting this component, we should automatically run through the setup method
in our test suite, which will invoke on mounted, which should invoke, use, fetch jobs, dispatch
behind the scenes.
So simply by mounting the component and then verifying that this has been invoked, we should get a
passing test.
We do run into a couple of issues, however, which is that our mounted component right here still needs
to go through the remainder of the setup method.
So it will go through use filter jobs, it will go through use current page, etc. and those just mock
functions will return undefined and that can be a little bit problematic.
So for example, if you look at this max page computed property right here, filter jobs needs to be
an object with a value property set to something with a length property.
So of course we can provide an array here.
But the important takeaway is if we simply allow use filter jobs to return undefined.
Undefined is not going to have a value property and thus this computed property will fail in the mounting
of our component and our test will fail.
So the summary that I'm trying to say here is even though we care about line 52, we still need to make
sure we mark out sufficiently in this test to ensure that the setup method here can run to completion.
Because if it.
Doesn't.
The test will fail right there, and we're never going to actually reach the end of our setup.
All right.
So what I'd like to do is begin by simply marking out the three composers that we have here use filter
jobs, use current page, and use previous index pages.
All right.
But with every test we're going to see, do we actually care about those specific values or do we just
need anything that can play the role?
So, for example, if I start with use filter jobs, which is my composable function now a just mock
function, I can do mock return value.
And as I mentioned earlier, we need this to have not just a value property, but a value property set
to something with a length property.
So here I'm going to provide an object with a value property set to an empty array.
So here I'm not going to actually have any filter jobs, but I am going to give something that is going
to ensure that Max Page is able to compute itself just fine.
All right.
So this will be enough for use filter jobs for just this thing right down below.
I can say use current page.
Let's do mock return value.
And since I'm not certain about whether this will whether this will matter, not let's just give it
a sample value and let the test run as if everything is great.
So let's say our current page is going to be an object with a value property set to two.
Once again, I'm not using a real reactive object, I'm just using our own JavaScript object that is
good enough to play the role of a view reactive object.
This test doesn't care about testing reactivity in the DOM in the template.
All he cares about is verifying the fetching of the jobs from the API.
So a simple non-reactive object is good enough for what use current page needs to be able to do, which
is be able to ensure that set up runs till completion.
Finally, our last composable is used pre this and next pages and here I'm going to once again mock
return value and as a reminder, what this composable function returns in the real world is an object
with previous page and next page properties, both of which are reactive objects.
So in theory, if I want it to be as close to the real world as I can, I would a previous page here
and that would be equal to an object with its own value property.
However, the interesting caveat here is whenever we get that previous page and next page reactive object
here, we don't do anything more with it below.
We just use it in our template.
So if we made previous page simply a regular number rather than a reactive object holding a number,
I have a feeling that we're still going to be able to get through the setup method and test what we
care about, which is line 52.
So in other words, even though we can be super more closer or more specific to how the real world implementation
works for the purposes of just getting set up to run setting previous page to one rather than an object
with a value property set to one should be enough.
So right here, as an example, I'll make previous page equal to one and next page equal to two.
And this should be enough to successfully just structure them.
All right.
Actually, next page is going to be three because we are currently on page two, previous pages one.
Next page is three.
Again, none of these things really matter, but it helps another reader sort of get a context of what
the test means.
We're no longer going to use the create root function so we can get rid of that.
We no longer care about dispatch.
We no longer care about creating a store.
We're still going to shallow amount, but remember our create config function above no longer takes
these two.
So I'm going to get rid of that.
And now instead of verifying that dispatch was called I care about use fetch jobs dispatch being called
so I'm going to copy this from right here and paste it right here.
And as a reminder we did import it and mock it out suggest is tracking calls to it and we no longer
care about it being called with the right argument.
We actually abstracted this logic away to the actual function we described right here.
All we care about from the vantage point of the joblessness component is that it's been invoked, period.
So instead of to have been called with I'm just going to change this to a single function call of two
have been called.
So simply verify that it has been invoked at some point during the mounting of the component.
And if I focus on this test by making it fit by 50, I'm going to save that.
Let the test rerun and you can see that test is passing.
All right.
So this is a good place to start.
We imported a bunch of things.
We cleaned up some helper functions.
And in the very next lesson, we can continue chipping away at the remaining tests in this job listings
next week.
So I'm going to remove the set, save the file, and I will see you in the next lesson.